[RF] Add instructions for writing custom PDFs in the BatchCompute library. (#7493)
root-project/root: README/ReleaseNotes/v624/index.md

[EPJ Web Conf. 245 (2020) 06007](https://www.epj-conferences.org/articles/epjconf/abs/2020/21/epjconf_chep2020_06007/epjconf_chep2020_06007.html),
[arxiv:2012.02746](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.02746).

### RooBatchCompute Library
A new library has been created with the aim of concentrating the auto-vectorizable compute functions of roofit,
as well as all the helpers (classes, structs, helping functions) that provide this functionality.

In case you have created a custom PDF which uses the batch computations feature, or you want to introduce this feature to your PDFs for the first time,
you need to override [`RooAbsReal::evaluateSpan()`](https://root.cern.ch/doc/master/classRooAbsReal.html#a1e5129ffbc63bfd04c01511fd354b1b8) and implement 
one computing function inside the RooBatchCompute Library, under the directory `roofit/batchcompute`. You can use any vectorised PDF inside this library as

> an example on how to do this, and/or consult the [RooBatchCompute readme](roofit/batchcompute/README.md).

Reviewer: I'm not sure this link is going to work, e.g. when viewing the release notes in a browser. Maybe it's better to unlink it (and describe where to find the file) or give the full `https://root.cern/...`

Reviewer: It might still be difficult to find out how to migrate.

Instead of `evaluateBatch(size_t, size_t)`, and using something like `x.getValBatch(start, end)` on a `RooRealProxy`, one now has to retrieve the computation data using `x.getValues(runContext, normSet)`. Can you e.g. describe this transition using two code examples, for example comparing the Gaussian from 6.22 with the new method?

Reviewer: Gaussian is actually a bad example. Here is `RooAddPdf`:
```diff
 ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
 /// Compute addition of PDFs in batches.
-
-RooSpan<double> RooAddPdf::evaluateBatch(std::size_t begin, std::size_t batchSize) const {
-  auto normAndCache = getNormAndCache();
+RooSpan<double> RooAddPdf::evaluateSpan(RooBatchCompute::RunContext& evalData, const RooArgSet* normSet) const {
+  auto normAndCache = getNormAndCache(normSet);
   const RooArgSet* nset = normAndCache.first;
   CacheElem* cache = normAndCache.second;
 
 
-  auto output = _batchData.makeWritableBatchInit(begin, batchSize, 0.);
-  const std::size_t n = output.size();
-
+  RooSpan<double> output;
 
   for (unsigned int pdfNo = 0; pdfNo < _pdfList.size(); ++pdfNo) {
     const auto& pdf = static_cast<RooAbsPdf&>(_pdfList[pdfNo]);
-    auto pdfOutputs = pdf.getValBatch(begin, batchSize, nset);
-    assert(pdfOutputs.size() == output.size());
+    auto pdfOutputs = pdf.getValues(evalData, nset);
+    if (output.empty()) {
+      output = evalData.makeBatch(this, pdfOutputs.size());
+      for (double& val : output) { //CHECK_VECTORISE
+        val = 0.;
+      }
+    }
+    assert(output.size() == pdfOutputs.size());
 
     const double coef = _coefCache[pdfNo] / (cache->_needSupNorm ?
         static_cast<RooAbsReal*>(cache->_suppNormList.at(pdfNo))->getVal() :
         1.);
 
     if (pdf.isSelectedComp()) {
-      for (std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i) { //CHECK_VECTORISE
+      for (std::size_t i = 0; i < output.size(); ++i) { //CHECK_VECTORISE
         output[i] += pdfOutputs[i] * coef;
       }
     }
```

[EPJ Web Conf. 245 (2020) 06007](https://www.epj-conferences.org/articles/epjconf/abs/2020/21/epjconf_chep2020_06007/epjconf_chep2020_06007.html),
[arxiv:2012.02746](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.02746).

### RooBatchCompute Library
A new library has been created with the aim of concentrating the auto-vectorizable compute functions of roofit,
as well as all the helpers (classes, structs, helping functions) that provide this functionality.

> To make use of the batch evaluation feature, one must provide for their own-made PDF's the function
> ```c++
>   RooSpan<double> RooMyPDF::evaluateSpan(RooBatchCompute::RunContext& evalData, const RooArgSet* normSet) const
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make use of the batch evaluation feature, one should override [`RooAbsReal::evaluateSpan()`](https://root.cern.ch/doc/master/classRooAbsReal.html#a1e5129ffbc63bfd04c01511fd354b1b8)
```c++
  RooSpan<double> RooMyPDF::evaluateSpan(RooBatchCompute::RunContext& evalData, const RooArgSet* normSet) const
\```
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure that the markdown variant understands `c++`, you would need to check when the page has been generated. (Not on github, on the ROOT webpage).

[EPJ Web Conf. 245 (2020) 06007](https://www.epj-conferences.org/articles/epjconf/abs/2020/21/epjconf_chep2020_06007/epjconf_chep2020_06007.html),
[arxiv:2012.02746](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.02746).

> ### RooBatchCompute Library
> A new library has been created with the aim of concentrating the auto-vectorizable compute functions of roofit,
> as well as all the helpers (classes, structs, helping functions) that provide this functionality. The PDFs contained in this library are highly optimized and there is currently work in progress for further optimization using CUDA and multi-threaded computations. If you use PDFs that are not part of the official Roofit, you are very well invited to request their addition in this library by submitting a ticket [here](https://github.com/root-project/root/issues/new).
> 
> #### Benefiting from batch computations by overriding `evaluateSpan()`
> It is even possible to benefit from batch computations that are not yet included in the official Roofit. To do so, consult the [RooBatchCompute readme](https://github.com/root-project/root/tree/v6-24-00-patches/roofit/batchcompute).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### RooBatchCompute Library
The library that contains the optimised computation functions is called `RooBatchCompute`. The PDFs contained in this library are highly optimized, and there is currently work in progress for further optimization using CUDA and multi-threaded computations. If you use PDFs that are not part of the official RooFit, you are very well invited to add them to RooFit by [submitting a ticket](https://github.com/root-project/root/issues/new) or a [pull request](https://github.com/root-project/root/pulls).

#### Benefiting from batch computations by overriding `evaluateSpan()`
For PDFs that are not part of RooFit, it is possible to benefit from batch computations without vector extensions. To do so, consult the [RooBatchCompute readme](https://github.com/root-project/root/tree/v6-24-00-patches/roofit/batchcompute).

```

> In case you have created a custom PDF which overrides `evaluateBatch()` instead, please follow these steps to update your code to the newest version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Migrating PDFs that override the deprecated `evaluateBatch()`
In case you have created a custom PDF which overrides `evaluateBatch()`, please follow these steps to update your code to the newest version:
```
